# launchTestNode Options

### `walletConfig`

Used to set the node's genesis block state (coins and messages).

- `count`: number of wallets/addresses to generate on the genesis block.
- `assets`: configure how many unique assets each wallet will own alongside the base asset. Can be `number` or `AssetId[]`.
  - The `AssetId` utility simplifies testing when different assets are necessary.
- `coinsPerAsset`: number of coins (UTXOs) per asset id.
- `amountPerCoin`: for each coin, the amount it'll contain.
- `messages`: messages to assign to the wallets. The [`TestMessage`](./launchTestNode-options.md#testmessage) utility is used to generate them. The `recipient` field of the message is overriden to be the wallet's address.

#### `AssetId`

The `AssetId` utility integrates with [`walletConfig`](./launchTestNode-options.md#walletconfig) and gives you an easy way to generate multiple random asset ids via the `AssetId.random` static method.

<<< @/../../docs-snippets/src/guide/testing/launching-a-test-node.test.ts#asset-ids{ts:line-numbers}

#### `TestMessage`

A helper class to create messages for testing purposes. Used in tandem with [`walletConfig`](./launchTestNode-options.md#walletconfig).
It can also be used standalone and passed into the initial state of a chain via the `TestMessage.toChainMessage` instance method.

<<< @/../../docs-snippets/src/guide/testing/launching-a-test-node.test.ts#test-messages{ts:line-numbers}

### `deployContracts`

Used to deploy contracts on the node `launchTestNode` utility launches. It's an array of objects with the following properties:

- `deployer`: contract deployer object compatible with factories outputted by `pnpm fuels typegen`. You can also pass in your custom object that satisfies the interface.
- `bytecode`: the contract's bytecode.
- `walletIndex`: the index of the wallets generated by [`walletConfig`](./launchTestNode-options.md#walletconfig) that you want to deploy the contract with.
- `options`: options for [contract deployment](../contracts/deploying-contracts.md#4-deploying-the-contract) that get passed to the [`ContractFactory.deployContract`](../../api/Contract/ContractFactory.md#deploycontract) method.

### `nodeOptions`

<!-- TODO: will cross-reference work done in [#1915](https://github.com/FuelLabs/fuels-ts/issues/1915) -->

_Note: The API for these options is still not fully complete and better documentation will come in the future._

Options to modify the behavior of the node.

For example, you can specify your own base asset id of the chain like below:

<<< @/../../docs-snippets/src/guide/testing/launching-a-test-node.test.ts#custom-node-options{ts:line-numbers}

### `providerOptions`

Provider options passed on `Provider` instantiation. More on them [here](../provider/provider-options.md).
