apps/docs/src/guide/testing/test-node-options.md, before:

# Test Node Options

This reference describes all the options of the [`launchTestNode`](./launching-a-test-node.md) utility:

- [`walletsConfig`](./test-node-options.md#walletsconfig)
- [`contractsConfigs`](./test-node-options.md#contractsconfigs)
- [`nodeOptions`](./test-node-options.md#nodeoptions)
- [`providerOptions`](./test-node-options.md#provideroptions)

<<< @/../../docs-snippets/src/guide/testing/launching-a-test-node.test.ts#options{ts:line-numbers}

## `walletsConfig`

Used to set the node's genesis block state (coins and messages).

- `count`: number of wallets/addresses to generate on the genesis block.
- `assets`: configure how many unique assets each wallet will own with the base asset included. Can be `number` or `TestAssetId[]`.
  - The `TestAssetId` utility simplifies testing when different assets are necessary.
- `coinsPerAsset`: number of coins (UTXOs) per asset id.
- `amountPerCoin`: for each coin, the amount it'll contain.
- `messages`: messages to assign to the wallets.

### `walletsConfig.assets`

The `TestAssetId` utility integrates with [`walletsConfig`](./test-node-options.md#walletsconfig) and gives you an easy way to generate multiple random asset ids via the `TestAssetId.random` static method.

<<< @/../../docs-snippets/src/guide/testing/launching-a-test-node.test.ts#asset-ids{ts:line-numbers}

### `walletsConfig.messages`

The `TestMessage` helper class is used to create messages for testing purposes. When passed via `walletsConfig.messages`, the `recipient` field of the message is overriden to be the wallet's address.

<<< @/../../docs-snippets/src/guide/testing/launching-a-test-node.test.ts#test-messages{ts:line-numbers}

It can also be used standalone and passed into the initial state of the chain via the `TestMessage.toChainMessage` instance method.

<<< @/../../docs-snippets/src/guide/testing/launching-a-test-node.test.ts#test-messages-chain{ts:line-numbers}

## `contractsConfigs`

Used to deploy contracts on the node the `launchTestNode` utility launches. It's an array of objects with the following properties:

- `factory`: contract factory class outputted by `pnpm fuels typegen`.
- `walletIndex`: the index of the wallets generated by [`walletsConfig`](./test-node-options.md#walletsconfig) that you want to deploy the contract with.
- `options`: options for [contract deployment](../contracts/deploying-contracts.md#2-contract-deployment) that get passed to the [`ContractFactory.deploy`](../../api/Contract/ContractFactory.md#deploy) method.

## `nodeOptions`

<!-- TODO: will cross-reference work done in [#1915](https://github.com/FuelLabs/fuels-ts/issues/1915) -->

Options to modify the behavior of the node.

For example, you can specify your own base asset id of the chain like below:

<<< @/../../docs-snippets/src/guide/testing/launching-a-test-node.test.ts#custom-node-options{ts:line-numbers}

_Note: The API for these options is still not fully complete and better documentation will come in the future._

## `providerOptions`

Provider options passed on `Provider` instantiation. More on them [here](../provider/provider-options.md).

Commit message:

docs: `launchTestNode` docs API links (#2979)
docs: launch test node api links

apps/docs/src/guide/testing/test-node-options.md, after:

# Test Node Options

This reference describes all the options of the [`launchTestNode`](./launching-a-test-node.md) utility:

- [`walletsConfig`](./test-node-options.md#walletsconfig)
- [`contractsConfigs`](./test-node-options.md#contractsconfigs)
- [`nodeOptions`](./test-node-options.md#nodeoptions)
- [`providerOptions`](./test-node-options.md#provideroptions)

<<< @/../../docs-snippets/src/guide/testing/launching-a-test-node.test.ts#options{ts:line-numbers}

Check out the [API reference](../../api/Contract/LaunchTestNodeOptions.md) for usage information on the Test Node Options.

## `walletsConfig`

Used to set the node's genesis block state (coins and messages).

- `count`: number of wallets/addresses to generate on the genesis block.
- `assets`: configure how many unique assets each wallet will own with the base asset included. Can be `number` or `TestAssetId[]`.
  - The `TestAssetId` utility simplifies testing when different assets are necessary.
- `coinsPerAsset`: number of coins (UTXOs) per asset id.
- `amountPerCoin`: for each coin, the amount it'll contain.
- `messages`: messages to assign to the wallets.

### `walletsConfig.assets`

The `TestAssetId` utility integrates with [`walletsConfig`](./test-node-options.md#walletsconfig) and gives you an easy way to generate multiple random asset ids via the `TestAssetId.random` static method.

<<< @/../../docs-snippets/src/guide/testing/launching-a-test-node.test.ts#asset-ids{ts:line-numbers}

### `walletsConfig.messages`

The `TestMessage` helper class is used to create messages for testing purposes. When passed via `walletsConfig.messages`, the `recipient` field of the message is overriden to be the wallet's address.

<<< @/../../docs-snippets/src/guide/testing/launching-a-test-node.test.ts#test-messages{ts:line-numbers}

It can also be used standalone and passed into the initial state of the chain via the `TestMessage.toChainMessage` instance method.

<<< @/../../docs-snippets/src/guide/testing/launching-a-test-node.test.ts#test-messages-chain{ts:line-numbers}

## `contractsConfigs`

Used to deploy contracts on the node the `launchTestNode` utility launches. It's an array of objects with the following properties:

- `factory`: contract factory class outputted by `pnpm fuels typegen`.
- `walletIndex`: the index of the wallets generated by [`walletsConfig`](./test-node-options.md#walletsconfig) that you want to deploy the contract with.
- `options`: options for [contract deployment](../contracts/deploying-contracts.md#2-contract-deployment) that get passed to the [`ContractFactory.deploy`](../../api/Contract/ContractFactory.md#deploy) method.

## `nodeOptions`

<!-- TODO: will cross-reference work done in [#1915](https://github.com/FuelLabs/fuels-ts/issues/1915) -->

Options to modify the behavior of the node.

For example, you can specify your own base asset id of the chain like below:

<<< @/../../docs-snippets/src/guide/testing/launching-a-test-node.test.ts#custom-node-options{ts:line-numbers}

_Note: The API for these options is still not fully complete and better documentation will come in the future._

## `providerOptions`

Provider options passed on `Provider` instantiation. More on them [here](../provider/provider-options.md).
