apps/docs/src/guide/wallets/connectors.md, before:

# Connectors

Fuel Wallet Connectors offer a standardized interface to integrate multiple wallets with your DApps, simplifying wallet integration and ensuring smooth user interactions.

## Fuel Connectors

`Fuel Connectors` are a set of standardized interfaces that provide a way to interact with various wallets and services. They offer a consistent way to interact with different wallets and services, allowing developers to focus on building their applications rather than worrying about wallet integration.

To build your own wallet integration, you can create a custom connector that extends the abstract [`FuelConnector`](../../api/Account/FuelConnector.md) class. This interface provides a set of methods and events that allow you to interact with the wallet and handle various operations such as connecting, disconnecting, signing messages, and sending transactions.

<<< @/../../docs-snippets/src/guide/wallets/connectors.test.ts#fuel-connector-extends{ts:line-numbers}

### Properties

The `FuelConnector` abstract class provides several properties that should be implemented to provide information about the connector.

#### `name`

The `name` property is simply a `string` on the connector that serves as an identifier and will be displayed to the end-user when selecting a connector.

<<< @/../../docs-snippets/src/guide/wallets/connectors.test.ts#fuel-connector-name{ts:line-numbers}

#### `metadata`

The `metadata` property on the connector provides additional information about the connector. This information will be displayed to the end-user when selecting a connector. The following is the structure of the `metadata` object:

<<< @/../../../packages/account/src/connectors/types/connector-metadata.ts#fuel-connector-metadata{ts:line-numbers}

##### `install`

The `metadata.install` property (_required_) is used to provide information about how to install the connector.

The `install` object requires three properties:

- `action` (_required_) - a `string` that will contain an action string that will be displayed to the user (e.g. "Install").

- `link` (_required_) - a `string` that will contain a URL that will be opened when the user clicks the action.

- `description` (_required_) - a `string` that will contain a description of the installation process.

<<< @/../../docs-snippets/src/guide/wallets/connectors.test.ts#fuel-connector-metadata-install{ts:line-numbers}

##### `image`

The `metadata.image` property (_optional_) provides an image that will be displayed to the end-user when selecting a connector. The image will be a URL to the image to be displayed (this can be an inline data URI, encoded in base64).

<<< @/../../docs-snippets/src/guide/wallets/connectors.test.ts#fuel-connector-metadata-image{ts:line-numbers}

You can even define a `light` and `dark` theme for the image by providing an object with the `light` and `dark` keys (these will take a similar URI as above).

<<< @/../../docs-snippets/src/guide/wallets/connectors.test.ts#fuel-connector-metadata-image-theme{ts:line-numbers}

### Events

The `FuelConnector` class provides a number of events that enable developers to listen for changes in the connector state. As part of implementing a custom connector, you can emit these events to notify the consumer dApp of changes.

#### `accounts`

The `accounts` event is emitted every time a connector's accounts change. The event data is an array of `string` addresses available on the network.

<<< @/../../docs-snippets/src/guide/wallets/connectors.test.ts#fuel-connector-events-accounts{ts:line-numbers}

#### `connectors`

The `connectors` event is emitted when the connectors are initialized. The event data is an array of [`FuelConnector`](../../api/Account/FuelConnector.md) objects available on the network.

<<< @/../../docs-snippets/src/guide/wallets/connectors.test.ts#fuel-connector-events-connectors{ts:line-numbers}

#### `currentConnector`

The `currentConnector` event is emitted every time the current connector changes. The event data is a [`FuelConnector`](../../api/Account/FuelConnector.md) object that is currently connected.

<<< @/../../docs-snippets/src/guide/wallets/connectors.test.ts#fuel-connector-events-currentConnector{ts:line-numbers}

#### `currentAccount`

The `currentAccount` event is emitted every time the current account changes. The event data is a string containing the current account address.

<<< @/../../docs-snippets/src/guide/wallets/connectors.test.ts#fuel-connector-events-currentAccount{ts:line-numbers}

#### `connection`

The `connection` event is emitted every time the connection status changes. The event data is a `boolean` value that is `true` if the connection is established and `false` otherwise.

<<< @/../../docs-snippets/src/guide/wallets/connectors.test.ts#fuel-connector-events-connection{ts:line-numbers}

#### `networks`

The `networks` event is emitted every time the network changes. The event data will be a [`Network`](../../api/Account/index.md#network) object containing the current network information.

<<< @/../../docs-snippets/src/guide/wallets/connectors.test.ts#fuel-connector-events-networks{ts:line-numbers}

#### `currentNetwork`

The `currentNetwork` event is emitted every time the current network changes. The event data will be a [`Network`](../../api/Account/index.md#network) object containing the current network information.

<<< @/../../docs-snippets/src/guide/wallets/connectors.test.ts#fuel-connector-events-currentNetwork{ts:line-numbers}

#### `assets`

The `assets` event is emitted every time the assets change. The event data will be an array of [`Asset`](../../api/Account/index.md#asset) objects available on the network.

<<< @/../../docs-snippets/src/guide/wallets/connectors.test.ts#fuel-connector-events-assets{ts:line-numbers}

#### `abis`

The `abis` event is emitted every time an ABI is added to a connector. The event data will be an array of [`FuelABI`](../../api/Account/index.md#fuelabi) object.

<<< @/../../docs-snippets/src/guide/wallets/connectors.test.ts#fuel-connector-events-assets{ts:line-numbers}

### Methods

The `FuelConnector` abstract class provides a number of methods that _can_ be implemented to perform various functions. Not all the methods are required to be implemented; if you choose not to implement a given method, then just don't include it in your connector.

#### `ping`

The `ping` method is used to check if the connector is available and connected.

It will return a promise that resolves to `true` if the connector is available and connected; otherwise, it will resolve to `false`.

<<< @/../../../packages/account/src/connectors/fuel-connector.ts#fuel-connector-method-ping{ts:line-numbers}

#### `version`

The `version` method is used to get the current supported version of the connector. It returns a promise that resolves to an object containing the `app` and `network` versions.

The returned version strings can be in a range of formats:

- Caret Ranges (e.g. `^1.2.3`)
- Tilde Ranges (e.g. `~1.2.3`)
- Exact Versions (e.g. `1.2.3`)

<<< @/../../../packages/account/src/connectors/fuel-connector.ts#fuel-connector-method-version{ts:line-numbers}

#### `isConnected`

The `isConnected` method informs if the connector is currently connected.

It will return a promise that resolves to `true` if the connector is established and currently connected; otherwise, it will return `false`.

<<< @/../../../packages/account/src/connectors/fuel-connector.ts#fuel-connector-method-isConnected{ts:line-numbers}

#### `connect`

The `connect` method initiates the current connectors authorization flow if a connection has not already been made.

It will return a promise that resolves to `true` if the connection has been established successfully, or `false` if the user has rejected it.

<<< @/../../../packages/account/src/connectors/fuel-connector.ts#fuel-connector-method-connect{ts:line-numbers}

#### `disconnect`

The `disconnect` method revokes the authorization of the current connector (provided by the `connect` methods).

It will return a promise that resolves to `true` if the disconnection is successful; otherwise, it will resolve to `false`.

<<< @/../../../packages/account/src/connectors/fuel-connector.ts#fuel-connector-method-connect{ts:line-numbers}

#### `accounts`

The `accounts` method should return a list of all the accounts for the current connection.

It returns a promise that resolves to an array of addresses, pointing to the accounts currently available on the network.

<<< @/../../../packages/account/src/connectors/fuel-connector.ts#fuel-connector-method-accounts{ts:line-numbers}

#### `currentAccount`

The `currentAccount` method will return the default account address if it's authorized with the connection.

It will return a promise to resolve the issue to an address, or if the account is not authorized for the connection, it will return `null`.

<<< @/../../../packages/account/src/connectors/fuel-connector.ts#fuel-connector-method-currentAccount{ts:line-numbers}

#### `signMessage`

The `signMessage` method initiates the sign message flow for the current connection.

It requires two arguments:

- `address` (`string`)
- `message` (`string`)

Providing the message signing flow is successful, it will return the message signature (as a `string`).

<<< @/../../../packages/account/src/connectors/fuel-connector.ts#fuel-connector-method-signMessage{ts:line-numbers}

#### `sendTransaction`

The `signTransaction` method initiates the send transaction flow for the current connection.

It requires two arguments:

- `address` (`string`)
- `transaction` ([`TransactionRequestLike`](../../api/Account/index.md#transactionrequestlike))

It will return the transaction signature (as a `string`) if it is successfully signed.

<<< @/../../../packages/account/src/connectors/fuel-connector.ts#fuel-connector-method-sendTransaction{ts:line-numbers}

#### `assets`

The `assets` method returns a list of all the assets available for the current connection.

It will return a promise that will resolve to an array of assets (see [`Asset`](../../api/Account/index.md#asset)) that are available on the network.

<<< @/../../../packages/account/src/connectors/fuel-connector.ts#fuel-connector-method-assets{ts:line-numbers}

#### `addAsset`

The `addAsset` method adds asset metadata to the connector.

It requires a single argument:

- `asset` ([`Asset`](../../api/Account/index.md#asset))

It returns a promise that resolves to `true` if the asset is successfully added; otherwise, it resolves to `false`.

<<< @/../../../packages/account/src/connectors/fuel-connector.ts#fuel-connector-method-addAsset{ts:line-numbers}

#### `addAssets`

The `addAssets` method adds multiple asset metadata to the connector.

It requires a single argument:

- `assets` (an Array of [`Asset`](../../api/Account/index.md#asset)).

Returns a promise that resolves to `true` if the assets are successfully added; otherwise, resolves to `false`.

<<< @/../../../packages/account/src/connectors/fuel-connector.ts#fuel-connector-method-addAssets{ts:line-numbers}

#### `addNetwork`

The `addNetwork` method starts the add network flow for the current connection.

It requires a single argument:

- `networkUrl` (`string`)

Returns a promise that resolves to `true` if the network is successfully added; otherwise, `false`.

It should throw an error if the network is not available or the network already exists.

<<< @/../../../packages/account/src/connectors/fuel-connector.ts#fuel-connector-method-addNetwork{ts:line-numbers}

#### `networks`

The `networks` method returns a list of all the networks available for the current connection.

Returns a promise that resolves to an array of available networks (see [`Network`](../../api/Account/index.md#network)).

<<< @/../../../packages/account/src/connectors/fuel-connector.ts#fuel-connector-method-networks{ts:line-numbers}

#### `currentNetwork`

The `currentNetwork` method will return the current network that is connected.

It will return a promise that will resolve to the current network (see [`Network`](../../api/Account/index.md#network)).

<<< @/../../../packages/account/src/connectors/fuel-connector.ts#fuel-connector-method-currentNetwork{ts:line-numbers}

#### `selectNetwork`

The `selectNetwork` method requests the user to select a network for the current connection.

It requires a single argument:

- `network` ([`Network`](../../api/Account/index.md#network))

It will return a promise that resolves to `true` if the network is successfully selected; otherwise, it will return `false`.

It should throw an error if the network is not available or the network does _not_ exist.

<<< @/../../../packages/account/src/connectors/fuel-connector.ts#fuel-connector-method-selectNetwork{ts:line-numbers}

#### `addABI`

The `addABI` method adds ABI information about a contract to the connector. This operation does not require an authorized connection.

It requires two arguments:

- `contractId` (`string`)
- `abi` ([`FuelABI`](../../api/Account/index.md#fuelabi)).

It will return a promise that will resolve to `true` if the ABI is successfully added; otherwise `false`.

<<< @/../../../packages/account/src/connectors/fuel-connector.ts#fuel-connector-method-addABI{ts:line-numbers}

#### `getABI`

The `getABI` method is used to get the ABI information that is sorted about a contract.

It requires a single argument:

- `contractId` (`string`)

Returns a promise that resolves to the ABI information (as a [`FuelABI`](../../api/Account/index.md#fuelabi)) or `null` if the data is unavailable.

<<< @/../../../packages/account/src/connectors/fuel-connector.ts#fuel-connector-method-getABI{ts:line-numbers}

#### `hasABI`

The `hasABI` method checks if the ABI information is available for a contract.

It requires a single argument:

- `contractId` (`string`)

Returns a promise that resolves to `true` if the ABI information is available; otherwise `false`.

<<< @/../../../packages/account/src/connectors/fuel-connector.ts#fuel-connector-method-hasABI{ts:line-numbers}

## Connectors Manager

The TS SDK exports the `Fuel` class, which serves as the connectors manager. This class provides the interface for interacting with the TS SDK and the broader Fuel ecosystem.

It can be instantiated as follows:

<<< @/../../docs-snippets/src/guide/wallets/connectors.test.ts#fuel-instantiation-1{ts:line-numbers}

### Options

Several options can be passed to the `Fuel` connector manager:

- [`connectors`](#connectors)
- [`storage`](#storage)
- [`targetObject`](#targetobject)

#### `connectors`

The `connectors` option provides a list of connectors with which the `Fuel` connector manager can interact. The manager interacts with the connectors, which in turn handle communication with the respective wallet. You can find a list of all the connectors in our [`FuelLabs/fuel-connectors`](https://github.com/FuelLabs/fuel-connectors).

Below, we initialize the manager using the `defaultConnectors` method which provides an array of all the default connectors available in the `fuel-connectors` package. Supplying the `devMode` flag as `true` will enable the development wallet for the connectors (to install visit our [wallet documentation](https://docs.fuel.network/docs/wallet/install/)).

<<< @/../../docs-snippets/src/guide/wallets/connectors.test.ts#fuel-options-connectors{ts:line-numbers}

#### `storage`

The `storage` is used internally to store the current connector state. It can be overridden by passing an instance that extends the `StorageAbstract` class.

<<< @/../../docs-snippets/src/guide/wallets/connectors.test.ts#fuel-options-storage-memory{ts:line-numbers}

The default behavior will use `LocalStorage` if the `window` is available:

<<< @/../../docs-snippets/src/guide/wallets/connectors.test.ts#fuel-options-storage-local{ts:line-numbers}

#### `targetObject`

The `targetObject` provides a target with which the `Fuel` manager can interact. Used for registering events and can be overridden as follows:

<<< @/../../docs-snippets/src/guide/wallets/connectors.test.ts#fuel-options-target-object{ts:line-numbers}

### Methods

The `Fuel` manager provides several methods to interact with the Manager:

#### All methods from connectors

The `Fuel` manager provides all the [methods](#methods) available from the connected connectors. Thus, you can interact with the current connector as if you were interacting with the `Fuel` manager directly.

If no current connector is available or connected, it will throw an error.

#### `connectors`

The `connectors` method gets the current list of _installed_ and _connected_ connectors.

<<< @/../../../packages/account/src/connectors/fuel.ts#connector-manager-method-connectors{ts:line-numbers}

#### `getConnector`

The `getConnector` method resolves a connector by its name. This is useful for finding a specific connector with which to interact. If the connector is not found, it will return `null`.

<<< @/../../../packages/account/src/connectors/fuel.ts#connector-manager-method-getConnector{ts:line-numbers}

#### `hasConnector`

The `hasConnector` method will return `true` under the following conditions:

- There is a current connector that is connected.
- A connector is connected within two seconds of calling the method.

<<< @/../../../packages/account/src/connectors/fuel.ts#connector-manager-method-hasConnector{ts:line-numbers}

#### `selectConnector`

The `selectConnector` method accepts a connector name and will return `true` when it is _available_ and _connected_. Otherwise, if not found or unavailable, it will return `false`.

<<< @/../../../packages/account/src/connectors/fuel.ts#connector-manager-method-selectConnector{ts:line-numbers}

#### `currentConnector`

The `currentConnector` method will return the current connector that is connected or if one is available and connected, otherwise it'll return `null` or `undefined`.

<<< @/../../../packages/account/src/connectors/fuel.ts#connector-manager-method-currentConnector{ts:line-numbers}

#### `getWallet`

The `getWallet` method accepts an address (string or instance) as the first parameter and a provider or network as the second parameter. It will return an `Account` instance for the given address (providing it is valid).

The provider or network will default to the current network if not provided. When a provider cannot be resolved, it will throw an [`INVALID_PROVIDER`](../errors/index.md) error.

<<< @/../../../packages/account/src/connectors/fuel.ts#connector-manager-method-getWallet{ts:line-numbers}

#### `clean`

The `clean` method removes all the data currently stored in the [`storage`](#storage) instance.

<<< @/../../../packages/account/src/connectors/fuel.ts#connector-manager-method-clean{ts:line-numbers}

#### `unsubscribe`

The `unsubscribe` method removes all currently registered event listeners.

<<< @/../../../packages/account/src/connectors/fuel.ts#connector-manager-method-unsubscribe{ts:line-numbers}

#### `destroy`

The `destroy` method unsubscribes from all the event listeners and clears the storage.

<<< @/../../../packages/account/src/connectors/fuel.ts#connector-manager-method-destroy{ts:line-numbers}

## Learning Resources

For a deeper understanding of `Fuel Connectors` and how to start using them in your projects, consider the following resources:

- [**Fuel Connectors Wiki**](https://github.com/FuelLabs/fuel-connectors/wiki) - read about what a `Fuel Connector` is and how it works.
- [**Fuel Connectors Guide**](https://docs.fuel.network/docs/wallet/dev/connectors/) - find out how to set up and use connectors.
- [**GitHub Repository**](https://github.com/FuelLabs/fuel-connectors) - explore different connector implementations.

Commit message:

fix: avoid potential race-condition in fuel connectors init (#2930)
* fix: ensure that connectors wait for the default connector to be initialized

* docs: add changeset

* chore: trigger workflow

* fix: flakey connectors on re render (#2943)

Co-authored-by: Nikita Chistousov <nikita_chistousov@epam.com>

* fix: handle error catch should wallet fail to initialize

* feat: add init method for use cases where intialization must complete in construction

* test: update tests and docs

* docs: update grammatical error

Co-authored-by: Daniel Bate <djbate23@gmail.com>

* test: update snippet for init

Co-authored-by: Anderson Arboleya <anderson@arboleya.me>

* linting fixes

* test: re-instantiate getProvider tests

* test: update import

---------

Co-authored-by: Peter Smith <peter@blueoceancomputing.co.uk>
Co-authored-by: Nikita Chistousov <nikita_chistousov@epam.com>
Co-authored-by: Daniel Bate <djbate23@gmail.com>
Co-authored-by: Anderson Arboleya <anderson@arboleya.me>
Co-authored-by: Sérgio Torres <30977845+Torres-ssf@users.noreply.github.com>

apps/docs/src/guide/wallets/connectors.md, after:

# Connectors

Fuel Wallet Connectors offer a standardized interface to integrate multiple wallets with your DApps, simplifying wallet integration and ensuring smooth user interactions.

## Fuel Connectors

`Fuel Connectors` are a set of standardized interfaces that provide a way to interact with various wallets and services. They offer a consistent way to interact with different wallets and services, allowing developers to focus on building their applications rather than worrying about wallet integration.

To build your own wallet integration, you can create a custom connector that extends the abstract [`FuelConnector`](../../api/Account/FuelConnector.md) class. This interface provides a set of methods and events that allow you to interact with the wallet and handle various operations such as connecting, disconnecting, signing messages, and sending transactions.

<<< @/../../docs-snippets/src/guide/wallets/connectors.test.ts#fuel-connector-extends{ts:line-numbers}

### Properties

The `FuelConnector` abstract class provides several properties that should be implemented to provide information about the connector.

#### `name`

The `name` property is simply a `string` on the connector that serves as an identifier and will be displayed to the end-user when selecting a connector.

<<< @/../../docs-snippets/src/guide/wallets/connectors.test.ts#fuel-connector-name{ts:line-numbers}

#### `metadata`

The `metadata` property on the connector provides additional information about the connector. This information will be displayed to the end-user when selecting a connector. The following is the structure of the `metadata` object:

<<< @/../../../packages/account/src/connectors/types/connector-metadata.ts#fuel-connector-metadata{ts:line-numbers}

##### `install`

The `metadata.install` property (_required_) is used to provide information about how to install the connector.

The `install` object requires three properties:

- `action` (_required_) - a `string` that will contain an action string that will be displayed to the user (e.g. "Install").

- `link` (_required_) - a `string` that will contain a URL that will be opened when the user clicks the action.

- `description` (_required_) - a `string` that will contain a description of the installation process.

<<< @/../../docs-snippets/src/guide/wallets/connectors.test.ts#fuel-connector-metadata-install{ts:line-numbers}

##### `image`

The `metadata.image` property (_optional_) provides an image that will be displayed to the end-user when selecting a connector. The image will be a URL to the image to be displayed (this can be an inline data URI, encoded in base64).

<<< @/../../docs-snippets/src/guide/wallets/connectors.test.ts#fuel-connector-metadata-image{ts:line-numbers}

You can even define a `light` and `dark` theme for the image by providing an object with the `light` and `dark` keys (these will take a similar URI as above).

<<< @/../../docs-snippets/src/guide/wallets/connectors.test.ts#fuel-connector-metadata-image-theme{ts:line-numbers}

### Events

The `FuelConnector` class provides a number of events that enable developers to listen for changes in the connector state. As part of implementing a custom connector, you can emit these events to notify the consumer dApp of changes.

#### `accounts`

The `accounts` event is emitted every time a connector's accounts change. The event data is an array of `string` addresses available on the network.

<<< @/../../docs-snippets/src/guide/wallets/connectors.test.ts#fuel-connector-events-accounts{ts:line-numbers}

#### `connectors`

The `connectors` event is emitted when the connectors are initialized. The event data is an array of [`FuelConnector`](../../api/Account/FuelConnector.md) objects available on the network.

<<< @/../../docs-snippets/src/guide/wallets/connectors.test.ts#fuel-connector-events-connectors{ts:line-numbers}

#### `currentConnector`

The `currentConnector` event is emitted every time the current connector changes. The event data is a [`FuelConnector`](../../api/Account/FuelConnector.md) object that is currently connected.

<<< @/../../docs-snippets/src/guide/wallets/connectors.test.ts#fuel-connector-events-currentConnector{ts:line-numbers}

#### `currentAccount`

The `currentAccount` event is emitted every time the current account changes. The event data is a string containing the current account address.

<<< @/../../docs-snippets/src/guide/wallets/connectors.test.ts#fuel-connector-events-currentAccount{ts:line-numbers}

#### `connection`

The `connection` event is emitted every time the connection status changes. The event data is a `boolean` value that is `true` if the connection is established and `false` otherwise.

<<< @/../../docs-snippets/src/guide/wallets/connectors.test.ts#fuel-connector-events-connection{ts:line-numbers}

#### `networks`

The `networks` event is emitted every time the network changes. The event data will be a [`Network`](../../api/Account/index.md#network) object containing the current network information.

<<< @/../../docs-snippets/src/guide/wallets/connectors.test.ts#fuel-connector-events-networks{ts:line-numbers}

#### `currentNetwork`

The `currentNetwork` event is emitted every time the current network changes. The event data will be a [`Network`](../../api/Account/index.md#network) object containing the current network information.

<<< @/../../docs-snippets/src/guide/wallets/connectors.test.ts#fuel-connector-events-currentNetwork{ts:line-numbers}

#### `assets`

The `assets` event is emitted every time the assets change. The event data will be an array of [`Asset`](../../api/Account/index.md#asset) objects available on the network.

<<< @/../../docs-snippets/src/guide/wallets/connectors.test.ts#fuel-connector-events-assets{ts:line-numbers}

#### `abis`

The `abis` event is emitted every time an ABI is added to a connector. The event data will be an array of [`FuelABI`](../../api/Account/index.md#fuelabi) object.

<<< @/../../docs-snippets/src/guide/wallets/connectors.test.ts#fuel-connector-events-assets{ts:line-numbers}

### Methods

The `FuelConnector` abstract class provides a number of methods that _can_ be implemented to perform various functions. Not all the methods are required to be implemented; if you choose not to implement a given method, then just don't include it in your connector.

#### `ping`

The `ping` method is used to check if the connector is available and connected.

It will return a promise that resolves to `true` if the connector is available and connected; otherwise, it will resolve to `false`.

<<< @/../../../packages/account/src/connectors/fuel-connector.ts#fuel-connector-method-ping{ts:line-numbers}

#### `version`

The `version` method is used to get the current supported version of the connector. It returns a promise that resolves to an object containing the `app` and `network` versions.

The returned version strings can be in a range of formats:

- Caret Ranges (e.g. `^1.2.3`)
- Tilde Ranges (e.g. `~1.2.3`)
- Exact Versions (e.g. `1.2.3`)

<<< @/../../../packages/account/src/connectors/fuel-connector.ts#fuel-connector-method-version{ts:line-numbers}

#### `isConnected`

The `isConnected` method informs if the connector is currently connected.

It will return a promise that resolves to `true` if the connector is established and currently connected; otherwise, it will return `false`.

<<< @/../../../packages/account/src/connectors/fuel-connector.ts#fuel-connector-method-isConnected{ts:line-numbers}

#### `connect`

The `connect` method initiates the current connectors authorization flow if a connection has not already been made.

It will return a promise that resolves to `true` if the connection has been established successfully, or `false` if the user has rejected it.

<<< @/../../../packages/account/src/connectors/fuel-connector.ts#fuel-connector-method-connect{ts:line-numbers}

#### `disconnect`

The `disconnect` method revokes the authorization of the current connector (provided by the `connect` methods).

It will return a promise that resolves to `true` if the disconnection is successful; otherwise, it will resolve to `false`.

<<< @/../../../packages/account/src/connectors/fuel-connector.ts#fuel-connector-method-connect{ts:line-numbers}

#### `accounts`

The `accounts` method should return a list of all the accounts for the current connection.

It returns a promise that resolves to an array of addresses, pointing to the accounts currently available on the network.

<<< @/../../../packages/account/src/connectors/fuel-connector.ts#fuel-connector-method-accounts{ts:line-numbers}

#### `currentAccount`

The `currentAccount` method will return the default account address if it's authorized with the connection.

It will return a promise to resolve the issue to an address, or if the account is not authorized for the connection, it will return `null`.

<<< @/../../../packages/account/src/connectors/fuel-connector.ts#fuel-connector-method-currentAccount{ts:line-numbers}

#### `signMessage`

The `signMessage` method initiates the sign message flow for the current connection.

It requires two arguments:

- `address` (`string`)
- `message` (`string`)

Providing the message signing flow is successful, it will return the message signature (as a `string`).

<<< @/../../../packages/account/src/connectors/fuel-connector.ts#fuel-connector-method-signMessage{ts:line-numbers}

#### `sendTransaction`

The `signTransaction` method initiates the send transaction flow for the current connection.

It requires two arguments:

- `address` (`string`)
- `transaction` ([`TransactionRequestLike`](../../api/Account/index.md#transactionrequestlike))

It will return the transaction signature (as a `string`) if it is successfully signed.

<<< @/../../../packages/account/src/connectors/fuel-connector.ts#fuel-connector-method-sendTransaction{ts:line-numbers}

#### `assets`

The `assets` method returns a list of all the assets available for the current connection.

It will return a promise that will resolve to an array of assets (see [`Asset`](../../api/Account/index.md#asset)) that are available on the network.

<<< @/../../../packages/account/src/connectors/fuel-connector.ts#fuel-connector-method-assets{ts:line-numbers}

#### `addAsset`

The `addAsset` method adds asset metadata to the connector.

It requires a single argument:

- `asset` ([`Asset`](../../api/Account/index.md#asset))

It returns a promise that resolves to `true` if the asset is successfully added; otherwise, it resolves to `false`.

<<< @/../../../packages/account/src/connectors/fuel-connector.ts#fuel-connector-method-addAsset{ts:line-numbers}

#### `addAssets`

The `addAssets` method adds multiple asset metadata to the connector.

It requires a single argument:

- `assets` (an Array of [`Asset`](../../api/Account/index.md#asset)).

Returns a promise that resolves to `true` if the assets are successfully added; otherwise, resolves to `false`.

<<< @/../../../packages/account/src/connectors/fuel-connector.ts#fuel-connector-method-addAssets{ts:line-numbers}

#### `addNetwork`

The `addNetwork` method starts the add network flow for the current connection.

It requires a single argument:

- `networkUrl` (`string`)

Returns a promise that resolves to `true` if the network is successfully added; otherwise, `false`.

It should throw an error if the network is not available or the network already exists.

<<< @/../../../packages/account/src/connectors/fuel-connector.ts#fuel-connector-method-addNetwork{ts:line-numbers}

#### `networks`

The `networks` method returns a list of all the networks available for the current connection.

Returns a promise that resolves to an array of available networks (see [`Network`](../../api/Account/index.md#network)).

<<< @/../../../packages/account/src/connectors/fuel-connector.ts#fuel-connector-method-networks{ts:line-numbers}

#### `currentNetwork`

The `currentNetwork` method will return the current network that is connected.

It will return a promise that will resolve to the current network (see [`Network`](../../api/Account/index.md#network)).

<<< @/../../../packages/account/src/connectors/fuel-connector.ts#fuel-connector-method-currentNetwork{ts:line-numbers}

#### `selectNetwork`

The `selectNetwork` method requests the user to select a network for the current connection.

It requires a single argument:

- `network` ([`Network`](../../api/Account/index.md#network))

It will return a promise that resolves to `true` if the network is successfully selected; otherwise, it will return `false`.

It should throw an error if the network is not available or the network does _not_ exist.

<<< @/../../../packages/account/src/connectors/fuel-connector.ts#fuel-connector-method-selectNetwork{ts:line-numbers}

#### `addABI`

The `addABI` method adds ABI information about a contract to the connector. This operation does not require an authorized connection.

It requires two arguments:

- `contractId` (`string`)
- `abi` ([`FuelABI`](../../api/Account/index.md#fuelabi)).

It will return a promise that will resolve to `true` if the ABI is successfully added; otherwise `false`.

<<< @/../../../packages/account/src/connectors/fuel-connector.ts#fuel-connector-method-addABI{ts:line-numbers}

#### `getABI`

The `getABI` method is used to get the ABI information that is sorted about a contract.

It requires a single argument:

- `contractId` (`string`)

Returns a promise that resolves to the ABI information (as a [`FuelABI`](../../api/Account/index.md#fuelabi)) or `null` if the data is unavailable.

<<< @/../../../packages/account/src/connectors/fuel-connector.ts#fuel-connector-method-getABI{ts:line-numbers}

#### `hasABI`

The `hasABI` method checks if the ABI information is available for a contract.

It requires a single argument:

- `contractId` (`string`)

Returns a promise that resolves to `true` if the ABI information is available; otherwise `false`.

<<< @/../../../packages/account/src/connectors/fuel-connector.ts#fuel-connector-method-hasABI{ts:line-numbers}

## Connectors Manager

The TS SDK exports the `Fuel` class, which serves as the connectors manager. This class provides the interface for interacting with the TS SDK and the broader Fuel ecosystem.

It can be instantiated as follows:

<<< @/../../docs-snippets/src/guide/wallets/connectors.test.ts#fuel-instantiation-1{ts:line-numbers}

> [!NOTE] Note
> We recommend initializing the Fuel class with the `init` method to avoid any potential race conditions that may arise from the async nature of instantiating a connector.

### Options

Several options can be passed to the `Fuel` connector manager:

- [`connectors`](#connectors)
- [`storage`](#storage)
- [`targetObject`](#targetobject)

#### `connectors`

The `connectors` option provides a list of connectors with which the `Fuel` connector manager can interact. The manager interacts with the connectors, which in turn handle communication with the respective wallet. You can find a list of all the connectors in our [`FuelLabs/fuel-connectors`](https://github.com/FuelLabs/fuel-connectors).

Below, we initialize the manager using the `defaultConnectors` method which provides an array of all the default connectors available in the `fuel-connectors` package. Supplying the `devMode` flag as `true` will enable the development wallet for the connectors (to install visit our [wallet documentation](https://docs.fuel.network/docs/wallet/install/)).

<<< @/../../docs-snippets/src/guide/wallets/connectors.test.ts#fuel-options-connectors{ts:line-numbers}

#### `storage`

The `storage` is used internally to store the current connector state. It can be overridden by passing an instance that extends the `StorageAbstract` class.

<<< @/../../docs-snippets/src/guide/wallets/connectors.test.ts#fuel-options-storage-memory{ts:line-numbers}

The default behavior will use `LocalStorage` if the `window` is available:

<<< @/../../docs-snippets/src/guide/wallets/connectors.test.ts#fuel-options-storage-local{ts:line-numbers}

#### `targetObject`

The `targetObject` provides a target with which the `Fuel` manager can interact. Used for registering events and can be overridden as follows:

<<< @/../../docs-snippets/src/guide/wallets/connectors.test.ts#fuel-options-target-object{ts:line-numbers}

### Methods

The `Fuel` manager provides several methods to interact with the Manager:

#### All methods from connectors

The `Fuel` manager provides all the [methods](#methods) available from the connected connectors. Thus, you can interact with the current connector as if you were interacting with the `Fuel` manager directly.

If no current connector is available or connected, it will throw an error.

#### `connectors`

The `connectors` method gets the current list of _installed_ and _connected_ connectors.

<<< @/../../../packages/account/src/connectors/fuel.ts#connector-manager-method-connectors{ts:line-numbers}

#### `getConnector`

The `getConnector` method resolves a connector by its name. This is useful for finding a specific connector with which to interact. If the connector is not found, it will return `null`.

<<< @/../../../packages/account/src/connectors/fuel.ts#connector-manager-method-getConnector{ts:line-numbers}

#### `hasConnector`

The `hasConnector` method will return `true` under the following conditions:

- There is a current connector that is connected.
- A connector is connected within two seconds of calling the method.

<<< @/../../../packages/account/src/connectors/fuel.ts#connector-manager-method-hasConnector{ts:line-numbers}

#### `selectConnector`

The `selectConnector` method accepts a connector name and will return `true` when it is _available_ and _connected_. Otherwise, if not found or unavailable, it will return `false`.

<<< @/../../../packages/account/src/connectors/fuel.ts#connector-manager-method-selectConnector{ts:line-numbers}

#### `currentConnector`

The `currentConnector` method will return the current connector that is connected or if one is available and connected, otherwise it'll return `null` or `undefined`.

<<< @/../../../packages/account/src/connectors/fuel.ts#connector-manager-method-currentConnector{ts:line-numbers}

#### `getWallet`

The `getWallet` method accepts an address (string or instance) as the first parameter and a provider or network as the second parameter. It will return an `Account` instance for the given address (providing it is valid).

The provider or network will default to the current network if not provided. When a provider cannot be resolved, it will throw an [`INVALID_PROVIDER`](../errors/index.md) error.

<<< @/../../../packages/account/src/connectors/fuel.ts#connector-manager-method-getWallet{ts:line-numbers}

#### `clean`

The `clean` method removes all the data currently stored in the [`storage`](#storage) instance.

<<< @/../../../packages/account/src/connectors/fuel.ts#connector-manager-method-clean{ts:line-numbers}

#### `unsubscribe`

The `unsubscribe` method removes all currently registered event listeners.

<<< @/../../../packages/account/src/connectors/fuel.ts#connector-manager-method-unsubscribe{ts:line-numbers}

#### `destroy`

The `destroy` method unsubscribes from all the event listeners and clears the storage.

<<< @/../../../packages/account/src/connectors/fuel.ts#connector-manager-method-destroy{ts:line-numbers}

## Learning Resources

For a deeper understanding of `Fuel Connectors` and how to start using them in your projects, consider the following resources:

- [**Fuel Connectors Wiki**](https://github.com/FuelLabs/fuel-connectors/wiki) - read about what a `Fuel Connector` is and how it works.
- [**Fuel Connectors Guide**](https://docs.fuel.network/docs/wallet/dev/connectors/) - find out how to set up and use connectors.
- [**GitHub Repository**](https://github.com/FuelLabs/fuel-connectors) - explore different connector implementations.
